docs: update component documentation (#5174)
canonical/snapcraft: docs/reference/components.rst

Components
==========

.. include:: /reuse/components-intro.rst

Like snaps, components are packaged a squashfs file. When installed, the

> component is mounted under ``$SNAP/../components/$SNAP_REVISION/`` so

Author: We could recommend `/snap/$SNAP_INSTANCE_NAME/components/$SNAP_REVISION`.  Neither are user-friendly.  My note here glosses over that this is a symlink to another directory where the component is actually mounted.

I asked in the google doc if there's a recommended way for a snap to access this.

> component is mounted under ``$SNAP/../components/$SNAP_REVISION/`` so

Author: It's an actual glob to get to the component files from $SNAP.

`/snap/$SNAP_INSTANCE_NAME/components/$SNAP_REVISION` works too, but neither option is user-friendly.  My note here glosses over that this is a symlink to another directory where the component is actually mounted.

I asked in the google doc if there's a recommended way for a snap to access component files.

> component is mounted under ``$SNAP/../components/$SNAP_REVISION/`` so

Reviewer: OK, with that in mind, I agree that's a mouthful to explain. Do you think this would be slightly clearer?

```suggestion
component is mounted at the path ``$SNAP/../components/$SNAP_REVISION/`` so
```

the host snap can access it.

Types
-----

A component can have a type for certain purposes. For some component types,

> Snapcraft may place requirements on the contents of a component and snapd

Author: Fixed.

> may have special handling for the component.

Author: I reworded this to say that the type is determined by the developer in their `snapcraft.yaml` file.

Standard
~~~~~~~~

This is the general use type for components. It should be used when no
specific type applies. Snapcraft has no requirements or special handling for
this type.

Kernel-modules
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> This type may only be used for :ref:`kernel snaps<kernel-snap-reference>`.

Reviewer: Something to consider: we use "may" here, but "should" below. Consistency with whether it's obligatory or permitted would improve clarity.

Author: Clarified.

These components are for kernel modules and firmware that are made available to

> the system after installation. This allows the kernel to find firmware and for

Reviewer: > This allows

I recently added a [rule about "this"](https://docs.ubuntu.com/styleguide/en/#lone-%22this%22,-%22these%22,-%22those%22,-%22that%22) after multi-subject sentences.

Author: I clarified "this" in a few places and I think it reads better now.

users to load kernel modules with ``modprobe``.

Static modules should be organized under ``modules/<kernel-version>/`` in the
component, where ``<kernel-version>`` is the version reported by ``uname -r``.

Firmware should be organized under ``firmware/`` in the component.

Modules and firmware may be dynamically generated by the component's
``install`` or ``refresh`` hooks. These modules and firmware should be placed
in ``$SNAP_DATA/modules/<kernel-version>/`` and ``$SNAP_DATA/firmware/``
respectively. Additionally, the snap's ``meta/kernel.yaml`` file must specify

> ``dynamic-modules: $SNAP_DATA``.

Reviewer: Nitpick: We could format these as a simple table/list to improve readability. Example:

> The following hooks can dynamically generate modules and firmware:
> - The `install` hook generates any modules in `$SNAP_DATA/modules/<kernel-version>/`.
> - The `refresh` hook generates any firmware in `$SNAP_DATA/firmware/`.
> 
> To activate module and firmware generation, the snap's ``meta/kernel.yaml`` file must declare ``dynamic-modules: $SNAP_DATA``.

Author: Fixed.

component is mounted at the path ``$SNAP/../components/$SNAP_REVISION/`` so
the host snap can access it.

Types
-----

A component must declare a ``type`` in the project's ``snapcraft.yaml`` file.
For some types, Snapcraft may place requirements on the files of a component
and snapd may have special handling for the component.

Standard
~~~~~~~~

The ``standard`` type is the general use type for components. It should be used
when no specific type applies. Snapcraft has no requirements or special
handling for this type.

Kernel-modules
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``kernel-modules`` type should only be used for
:ref:`kernel snaps<kernel-snap-reference>`. These components are for kernel
modules and firmware that are made available to the system after installation.
This type allows the kernel to find firmware and for users to load kernel
modules with ``modprobe``.

Static modules should be organized under ``modules/<kernel-version>/`` in the
component, where ``<kernel-version>`` is the version reported by ``uname -r``.

Firmware should be organized under ``firmware/`` in the component.

Modules and firmware may be dynamically generated by the component's

> ``install`` or ``refresh`` hooks:

Reviewer 2: is it ok to link to the snapd docs for this?

Author: Good idea, added a link.
